Hi Rackers!
 
Whether it was in this year뭩 Kick-Off or meeting with Lew, many of you know that we want Rackers to think in a different way and leveraging the Rackspace API to create true 'Cloudy' solutions for our customers. Today we are kicking off a series of challenges designed to help you understand and harness the power of our APIs so you can have more in-depth conversations with our customers. Over the next few weeks you will see a series of new challenges being released to help stretch your imagination of what the Cloud APIs can do.   This is only open to Support Rackers across the business and will be judged by Support Rackers. 
 
Rules:
        In order to submit your answers for prizes, you must:
o   Create a public github account and push your answers to a new repository with filenames of challenge1, challenge2, etc.
o   Submit your repository using the form at http://challenge.cldsrvr.com/register by April 10th.
        Information on the Desired Language:
o   You are encouraged to use one of the following Software Development Kits (SDK):
  Pyrax for Python (http://docs.rackspace.com/sdks/guide/content/python.html)
  jClouds for Java (http://docs.rackspace.com/sdks/guide/content/java.html)
  PHP-Opencloud (http://docs.rackspace.com/sdks/guide/content/php.html)
o   Other Languages which do not have an official Rackspace SDK yet:
  Ruby
 
  .Net
 
  Node.js
 
o   Languages that you are strongly encouraged to avoid:
  Bash
        For all challenges, you can assume that a valid credentials file with the username and API key exist at ~/.rackspace_cloud_credentials
        Nothing will be graded or judged until the challenge period is over on April 10th. At that time, your repository will be cloned and reviewed.  We will start another challenge period after this one expires on April 10th.
 
What was that about Prizes?
Over the next few weeks, there will be the opportunity to earn a total of 30 points from the different challenges being sent out.
        If you earn at least 5 Points: You get a super cool, limited edition, first run "API Savvy" button for your lanyard.
        If you earn at least 12 Points: You get a $5 gift certificate for Ground Town
        If you earn at least 20 Points: You'll be invited to an end of challenge celebration! Beer, food, hanging out with your fellow geeks, and MAYBE a special prize. Want to find out what it is? Get to coding!


In addition to using this as an opportunity to grow knowledge around Rackspace, we will also be selecting the best submissions and adding them to a customer facing Code Snippets page. This will be a place customers can go to get example code that solves real life problems.
 
Questions:
I'm not a developer. Should I even try this?
Yes! The goal is to get out of your comfort zone and expand your skill set. All of the Rackspace SDKs listed above have a great "Samples" section with code that you can use as a jumping off point. We have created a new internal forum category at https://forums.rackspace.corp/categories/api-challenges where you can ask for help and discuss each challenge. Codecademy.com is also a great resource for building a development foundation.
 
I've never used github, and you scared me with all this talk about repositories, pushing, and cloning.
It's not as scary as it sounds. Check out try.github.com for a quick crash course, and if you can't figure it out, jump into the internal forums above and ask for a hand.  Rackers like to help Rackers, so don뭪 be afraid to ask questions.
 
Why can't I use bash?!
The goal of this project is to identify Rackers who have a passion to learn DevOps and grow our knowledge so we can support our customers using the API. The fact is, the majority of our customers using the API do so with advanced languages like Python and Ruby, and not by using curl in bash scripts. 
 
Ok, this sounds like fun, bring on the challenges!
Here are this week's Challenges:
        Challenge 1: Write a script that builds three 512 MB Cloud Servers that following a similar naming convention. (ie., web1, web2, web3) and returns the IP and login credentials for each server. Use any image you want. Worth 1 point
        Challenge 2: Write a script that clones a server (takes an image and deploys the image as a new server). Worth 2 Point
        Challenge 3: Write a script that accepts a directory as an argument as well as a container name. The script should upload the contents of the specified directory to the container (or create it if it doesn't exist). The script should handle errors appropriately. (Check for invalid paths, etc.) Worth 2 Points
        Challenge 4: Write a script that uses Cloud DNS to create a new A record when passed a FQDN and IP address as arguments. Worth 1 Point
        Challenge 5: Write a script that creates a Cloud Database instance. This instance should contain at least one database, and the database should have at least one user that can connect to it. Worth 1 Point
 
Be on the lookout for more challenges in a week!
 
Best Regards,
 
Your Support Leadership Team
